README.md, before:

# SeptaCam
Code for controlling the seven-camera system

# Installation
- Create environment
```
$conda create -n septacam python=3.6 numpy
$conda activate septacam
```

- Install [pylon 5.0.12](https://www.baslerweb.com/en/sales-support/downloads/software-downloads/pylon-5-0-12-linux-x86-64-bit/)

- Install opencv
```
$sudo apt install build-essential cmake git pkg-config libgtk-3-dev \
    libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libv4l-dev \
    libxvidcore-dev libx264-dev libjpeg-dev libpng-dev libtiff-dev \
    gfortran openexr libatlas-base-dev python3-dev python3-numpy \
    libtbb2 libtbb-dev libdc1394-22-dev libopenexr-dev \
    libgstreamer-plugins-base1.0-dev libgstreamer1.0-dev
$git clone https://github.com/opencv/opencv.git
$git clone https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib.git
$git checkout 4.0.0 (both repos)
$cd ~/opencv
$mkdir build
$cd build
$cmake -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RELEASE \
       -D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local \
       -D INSTALL_C_EXAMPLES=ON \
       -D INSTALL_PYTHON_EXAMPLES=ON \
       -D OPENCV_GENERATE_PKGCONFIG=ON \
       -D OPENCV_EXTRA_MODULES_PATH=../../opencv_contrib/modules \
       -D BUILD_EXAMPLES=ON ..
$make -j8
$sudo make install
```

- Install jsoncpp
```$sudo apt-get install libjsoncpp-dev```

- Install boost
```$sudo apt-get install libboost-all-dev```

- Install tcl
```$sudo apt-get install tcl-dev```

- Install tk
```$sudo apt-get install tk8.6-dev```

- Create .obj directory in SeptaCam folder
```$mkdir .obj```

- Compile software
```$make GUI_BASLER_m```

- Test that you can launch the GUI with no cameras plugged in
```$./GUI_BASLER_m```

# Configuration
### Set paths
In `C++_Source/constants.h`:
- Update `INSTALL_DIR`, `SEQ_FILE`, `VID_BATCH_FILE`, `MAKE_VIDEOS_FILE` to have the correct path to the SeptaCam software.
- Update `OUTPUT_DIR` to have the path where you want to save your images.

Afterward, run `make clean` and `make GUI_BASLER_m` to re-build.

### Configure cameras
Plug in your camera(s). Try launching the UI with `./GUI_BASLER_m`. You should get a message saying `X cameras detected` where X is how many cameras you plugged in, then a line that says `.../SeptaCam/Config/40012345.pfs`, then an error `Exception on connect()`. For the next steps you need this `40012345` number, which should be your camera's serial number -- you can double check that this number is printed on the camera.
- In `Config/defaultROI.json`, add a section for your your camera(s).
- In `Config/`, create a `.pfs` file for your camera(s).
  - The easiest option is to just copy an existing `.pfs` file from another camera and rename it to have your camera(s)'s serial number.
  - The "right" way is to use Pylon. To do this, open Pylon, connect to your camera, then in the top menu bar click on `Camera > Save Features...` and create a pfs file named `{serial number}.pfs` in the `Config/` folder.
 
Now you should be able to run `./GUI_BASLER_m` and successfully connect to your cameras.

Commit message:

Add pylon version information to install instructions

README.md, after:

# SeptaCam
Code for controlling the seven-camera system

# Installation
- Create environment
```
$conda create -n septacam python=3.6 numpy
$conda activate septacam
```

- Install [Pylon](https://www2.baslerweb.com/en/downloads/software-downloads/#type=pylonsoftware;os=linuxx8664bit):
  - We've successfully used multiple versions including [5.0.12](https://www.baslerweb.com/en/sales-support/downloads/software-downloads/pylon-5-0-12-linux-x86-64-bit/) and [7.3.0](https://www2.baslerweb.com/en/downloads/software-downloads/software-pylon-7-3-0-linux-x86-64bit/), so probably you can just use the newest version and you'll be fine. If weird stuff happens, try 7.3.0 which is known to work.
  - Note that there are two sets of installation instructions that you need to follow: the "basic" install instructions come in a text file named INSTALL that is directly in the `.tar.gz` file that you download from Basler. Then there are some more "advanced" configuration instructions in `/opt/pylon/share/pylon/README` (which is a file that gets unpacked from the `.tar.gz` file inside the `.tar.gz` file you downloaded from Basler) that you also want to go through -- specifically as of version 7.3.0, the sections `Performance Optimization > USB Vision Cameras` and `Permissions for Real-Time Thread Priorities` are important.

- In the SeptaCam `Makefile`, set `PYLON_ROOT` to point to your pylon installation.

- Build and install opencv:
```
$sudo apt install build-essential cmake git pkg-config libgtk-3-dev \
    libavcodec-dev libavformat-dev libswscale-dev libv4l-dev \
    libxvidcore-dev libx264-dev libjpeg-dev libpng-dev libtiff-dev \
    gfortran openexr libatlas-base-dev python3-dev python3-numpy \
    libtbb2 libtbb-dev libdc1394-22-dev libopenexr-dev \
    libgstreamer-plugins-base1.0-dev libgstreamer1.0-dev
$git clone https://github.com/opencv/opencv.git
$git clone https://github.com/opencv/opencv_contrib.git
$git checkout 4.0.0 (both repos)
$cd ~/opencv
$mkdir build
$cd build
$cmake -D CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RELEASE \
       -D CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local \
       -D INSTALL_C_EXAMPLES=ON \
       -D INSTALL_PYTHON_EXAMPLES=ON \
       -D OPENCV_GENERATE_PKGCONFIG=ON \
       -D OPENCV_EXTRA_MODULES_PATH=../../opencv_contrib/modules \
       -D BUILD_EXAMPLES=ON ..
$make -j8
$sudo make install
```

- Install jsoncpp
```$sudo apt-get install libjsoncpp-dev```

- Install boost
```$sudo apt-get install libboost-all-dev```

- Install tcl
```$sudo apt-get install tcl-dev```

- Install tk
```$sudo apt-get install tk8.6-dev```

- Create .obj directory in SeptaCam folder
```$mkdir .obj```

- Compile software
```$make GUI_BASLER_m```

- Test that you can launch the GUI with no cameras plugged in
```$./GUI_BASLER_m```

# Configuration
### Set paths
In `C++_Source/constants.h`:
- Update `INSTALL_DIR`, `SEQ_FILE`, `VID_BATCH_FILE`, `MAKE_VIDEOS_FILE` to have the correct path to the SeptaCam software.
- Update `OUTPUT_DIR` to have the path where you want to save your images.

Afterward, run `make clean` and `make GUI_BASLER_m` to re-build.

### Configure cameras
Plug in your camera(s). Try launching the UI with `./GUI_BASLER_m`. You should get a message saying `X cameras detected` where X is how many cameras you plugged in, then a line that says `.../SeptaCam/Config/40012345.pfs`, then an error `Exception on connect()`. For the next steps you need this `40012345` number, which should be your camera's serial number -- you can double check that this number is printed on the camera.
- In `Config/defaultROI.json`, add a section for your your camera(s).
- In `Config/`, create a `.pfs` file for your camera(s).
  - The easiest option is to just copy an existing `.pfs` file from another camera and rename it to have your camera(s)'s serial number.
  - The "right" way is to use Pylon. To do this, open Pylon, connect to your camera, then in the top menu bar click on `Camera > Save Features...` and create a pfs file named `{serial number}.pfs` in the `Config/` folder.
 
Now you should be able to run `./GUI_BASLER_m` and successfully connect to your cameras.
